---
title: Discipline Philosophy
permalink: /our-resources/for-students/discipline-philosophy/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: For Students
---
<p><strong>Townsville Primary School believes that discipline</strong> is an educational process. We place a strong emphasis in the inculcation of our iDARE2 school values and instilling a strong sense of personal responsibility in our students. We strive towards a positive and safe school environment through our STEeR approach in enacting positive discipline:</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <strong>S</strong>upport – Collectively creating an inviting school that supports students’ holistic growth.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <strong>T</strong>each – Inculcation of values and 21CC competencies.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <strong>E</strong>xercis<strong>e</strong> – Opportunities to demonstrate positive behaviour.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <strong>R</strong>edirect – Guiding students to take responsibility for their actions through restoration, restitution, and reconciliation.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h4><strong>Students’ Creed</strong></h4><p>The Students’ Creed serves as aims which guide and motivate Townsville students to be a responsible and respectful student of Townsville and the larger community. The creed is recited daily during the flag raising ceremony.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I will be neat, clean and appropriately attired.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I will be punctual and prepared for all school activities.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I will behave in a manner that is safe for all.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I will be respectful of others in my words and actions.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I will care for others’ property and the environment.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I will observe all rules at all times.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I will put on my best behaviour in public so as to uphold the good name of the school.</p><p></p><h4><strong>School Rules</strong></h4><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; All Townsville students are to abide by the School Rules and uphold the Students’ Creed.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Details of the school rules can be found in pages 10 to 16 of the Students’ Handbook.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The school takes a serious view on students’ behaviour and conduct. Consequences will be meted out for offences committed.</p><p></p><h4><strong>Use of Mobile Devices</strong></h4><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Parents who wish to have their children bring their mobile devices (e.g.; handphones and watches with call functions) to school are required to sign the Parent’s Acknowledgement for Use of Mobile Devices (page 16 of Students’ Handbook)</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Students are to adhere to the expected behaviour as stated in the Parent’s Acknowledgement for Use of Mobile Devices.</p><p>· &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Parents can contact the school at 6457 4345 should they need to reach their child urgently during school hours.</p>