---
title: Science
permalink: /our-curriculum/science/
description: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h3><strong>Vision</strong></h3><p>Every student a passionate, caring, hands-on scientific inquirer.</p><h4><strong>Teaching Approach</strong></h4><p>Science is formally introduced in Primary 3 as per the MOE Primary Science Syllabus.&nbsp; Adopting an inquiry-based approach to learning, students investigate problems and search for possible solutions through asking questions, making observations, hypotheses testing and critical thinking as well as develop explanations backed by evidence.</p><p>Through the implementation of this syllabus, the Science Department aims to:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>quip pupils with Science knowledge and skills and imbue them with attitudes and ethics to be young scientists;</p></li><li><p>raise competency of Science teachers so as to nurture young scientists;</p></li><li><p>maintain strong collaborative culture with key stakeholders and the community;</p></li><li><p>take collaborative action towards environmental responsibility.</p></li></ul><h3><strong>Key Programmes</strong></h3><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>SciQuest</strong></p><p>SciQuest seeks to nurture students’ curiosity about themselves and their environment and deepen their understanding of science concepts through fun and engaging activities. Students are encouraged to ask questions, gather evidence, formulate explanations and communicate their findings.</p><p>&lt;<em>insert photo for p3 mushroom:</em> 1 - 2&gt;</p><p>&lt;<em>insert photo p4 ice cream making:</em> 3 - 4 &gt;</p><p>&lt;<em>to use existing photos p5 flower dissection</em> &gt;</p><p>&lt;<em>insert photo p6 sungei buloh</em>: 5&gt;</p><p></p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Earth Guardians Programme</strong></p><p>The Earth Guardians Programme aims to foster an understanding that small efforts to preserve our environment can lead to significant impacts over time. Environmental awareness is imbued in our students through the following initiatives:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Assembly talks</p></li><li><p>Recycling campaigns</p></li><li><p>Eco Leaders Workshop</p></li></ul><p>&lt;<em>insert photo for assembly talk: </em>6<em>&gt;</em></p><p>&lt;<em>insert photo for recycling campaigns: </em>7<em>&gt;</em></p><p>&lt;<em>insert photo for eco leaders workshop: </em>8<em>&gt;</em></p><p></p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Science E2K</strong></p><p>The E2K Science Programme is an enrichment programme for P4 and P5 students who demonstrate interest and aptitude in science. The programme aims to develop the habits, attitudes and dispositions of scientists as well as 21st century competencies such as critical and inventive thinking, and effective communication skills. Through collaborative learning, students engage in scientific investigations to discover and deepen their understanding of advance science concepts.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&lt;to keep existing 3 photos on website&gt;</p><p></p><p>In partnership with Pathlight, our E2K students are given opportunities to share and learn science concepts through engaging displays and experiments. This collaboration not only deepens their understanding of scientific principles but also cultivates an environment where diverse learners can build meaningful connections, developing friendships and communication skills.</p><p></p><p>&lt;<em>insert photo for PL Integration: </em>10 - 12<em>&gt;</em></p><p></p>